# Agenda

See [2025-08-05_AGENDA.md](2025-08-05_AGENDA.md)

# Video Recording

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IXO9h9CAwcg

# Attendees

- Christian Mesh
- James Humphries
- Igor Savchenko
- Zach Goldberg
- Yousif Akbar
- Arel Rabinowitz


# Notes

## 1.11 status

* Christian: Progressing well, main lynchpin is ephemeral and is well on it's way
* Christian: Nightlies soon, Alpha as soon as it's ready
* Christian: Enabled flag is still in RFC, but prototype implementation is already in progress

## CNCF Status (impromptu)

* James: CNCF slack move completed
* Not shuttering immediately, will do so once conversations taper off
* Christian: 90 day retention means that it will not be useful shortly

## Action Items from previous meeting
* Igor: TSC membership list updated
* James: S3 docs are still on my TODO list
* James: Scheduled convo with LF about incubating 

## Terragrunt Integration
* Christian: We should set some pretty clear scope guardrails on this
* Yousif: I meet with the TG devs right before this call, won't have time to put it on the agenda before this call
* Yousif: We went over most of James' provider RFC
* Some discussions occurred, pushed toward github issues

## Future of OpenTofu as a drop in replacement
* James: Primary concern is that our driver is being a 1-1 terraform, but open source.  I don't think that's the right direction for OpenTofu.
* James: I believe that OpenTofu needs to consider how to chart it's own course, out of TF's shadow.
* James: We are community driven, but public statements on our website imply that our goal is 1-1 compatibility.
* James: Can we clarify that statement and add bounds?
* Igor: New tofu features drive adoption, but realistically adoption of tofu is still very much in progress.
* Igor: Concerned that any implication of compatibility issues will really hurt adoption.
* Igor: We should definitely try to clarify, but keep the gap as small as possible for now.
* Christian: Our approach is that since 1.5, we have just added features that have been voted for by the community.
* Christian: It is hard to both keep pace with TF and innovate at the same time.
* Roger: We are still trying to convince tofu is a stable option. Lots of questions about providers
* Yousif: TG stats are about 50%, still leaning a bit toward TF.  People hate changing IAC.
* Yousif: Basic functionality is the core of what people use, lots of features are niche and not as critical for the majority.
* Yousif: Could clarify the "drop in replacement" in FAQ
* Arel: Not in a position to break out yet.  Even clarifying what versions we are compatible with is tricky.
* James: This is a marketing issue, not a technical issue.  It however does have serious implications on technical issues.
* James: If we keep "drop in replacement" we are hampering the development team and don't have the resources to keep up with HC.
* Igor: Agree core feature set is critical and we should focus on that
* Yousif: Marketing is incredibly important and we are still pretty early in adoption.
* Christian: It's a careful balance between marketing claims and keeping development moving
* James: I think we are at a place where diversion makes sense.  Would like to switch our messaging from keeping parity to serving the community and that we have migration guides/tools.
* James: Eventually compatible is a trap.
* Discussion continued in this way for a while, see recording from 37:53 to 57:15
* Christian: Are we in agreement that the goal is for the maintainers to keep following the community's top requested features and have a distinct discussion on how to clarify the messaging on our website around drop in replacement?
* All: yes

