## Agenda

- Update on action items from last meeeting
- 1.11.0 planning
- CNCF onboarding
    - Curent Status
- Agenda/Notes Process
- Future of the DynamoDB locks for S3 backend

# Video Recording

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vbPc-wwUmKc

# Attendees

- Christian Mesh
- James Humphries
- Igor Savchenko
- Arel Rabinowitz
- Roger Simms
- Zach Goldberg
- Yousif Akbar
- Troy Knapp
- Laurence Bordowitz

## Previous action items
- Christian: to follow up on Fidelity usecase of HTTP backends


# Notes

### Follow up on Fidelity:
  Christian: HTTP Backend - using due to some internal requirements for custom authentification. 

### CNCF onboarding
  James: LF staying with Slack for now. Got confirmation from LF to migrate to CNCF slack. Will start preperations and announcement for migration to finish it within the next couple of weeks. 
  

### Agenda/Notes Process
  Christian: Ideally we want a finalized agenda to be posted 3-4 days before the meeting. 

  Christian will share recordings after each mneeting.

  Whoever publish the notes, will publish an agenda file for the next meeting.

### 1.11.0 planning:
  Christian: GitHub Milestone is up to date. The biggest item is Ephemeral resources. Lots of small items. Lots of things in progress. Ask for TSC to check https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/issues/1306 and comment. 
  
  Laurence: Azure backend work is going extremely well. Lot's of progress. Soon can be demoed. 
  
  Christian: https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/issues/2901 - can be useful for terragrunt or other tools Advice to take a look and comment. 
  A few things from Hackaton that coming into fruition (eg. https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/pull/2921). 
  1.11 is a bit smaller release so team is looking for the next big thing. A lot of issues need to be put together, find related issues to have a bigger conversation and how to move forward. We want to know how people want OTF to move forward.
  
  Zach: Gruntwork and Terragrunt - releasing thougtfull stacks. Issue with Stacks issue is that it's talks about solution and not a problem. It's unclear what problems users have. 
  
  Arel: Overall agreed. As vendors we may hear that customers want stacks. Not sure if this valid enough reason to add Stacks. Depends on what community wants. What problems needs to be solved.

  Christian: Need to have conversations around future of OpenTofu (Big things in 1.12 and beyond). Figure out how to have this conversation within the next couple of weeks to have a plan for 1.12.

  James: We probably need to start assembly some working groups to discuss high level projects.


### Future of the DynamoDB locks for S3 backend
  Zach: We talking about new S3 locks. TF changelog: Hashicorp is explicit that their intention is to deprecate and remove DynamoDB locks eventually. Basically stabilize native locks and deprecate and kill DynamoDB locks.
  
  Christian: Maintaining DynamoDB locks - is not a big deal.
  
  James: We plan to keep DynamoDB locks and our S3 native locking is stable.
  
  Yousif: Which one is preferred? Any guidance?
  
  Christian: We already have it in the docs: Native locking is preferred.
  
  Yousif: No explanation of technical tradeoffs. User may want to know what are the pros and cons of each option.

  * Action Item: James will open an issue and clarify this in the doc.

### Opentofu Blog
  James: There is a company interested in publishing a blog post about migration from terraform to opentofu.
  
  All: Fine with that.


### Zach resignation from TSC. 
  Zach: My role at Gruntwork changed. I want to nominate Yousif as his replacement in TSC.
  Vote: In favor.
  * Action item: Igor Will handle updating TSC members list.
