## Agenda

- Update on action items from last meeting
- 1.10.0 Release
- CNCF onboarding
  - Current Status
  - Slack Migration - The great CNCF issue and why its on hold

# Video Recording

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xFhPALuCkMs

# Attendees

- Christian Mesh
- James Humphries
- Igor Savchenko
- Ilia Gogotchuri
- Roger Simms
- Zach Goldberg
- Joey Stout
- Laurence Bordowitz

## Previous action items

- RFC written in 1.11 branch PR/issue #2904
- Roger to followup on Workspaces RFC
- Igor to take James's item
- Christian has completed on naming conventions for coreteam/maintainers. Confirm all references after this.
- Christian: to followup on fidelity item


# Notes

### 1.10.0 Release

Congratulations on 1.10 release!

### CNCF onboarding

Agreement from last meeting on migrating Slack: if hear nothing then we'll just do it.

However, Slack updated pricing & LF will be moved to free teir & so potentially lose history causing some internal discussions. This is being discussed on LF slack channels and awaiting decision. James is in conversation with CNCF side and will update as this develops.

While Slack migration is recommended it is not blocking OpenTofu onboarding.

Action item: Need to message to CNCF to close off the application ticket.

## Any Other Business

### 1.11 roadmap

Maintainers to complete roadmap. Discuss in next TSC meeting.

Christian: Going over the highlevel roadmap for 1.11 & request for review.

### Azure Provider Update

Laurence Bordowitz gave update on Azure provider & its switch over to new service version.

### Query on Numbers Given in 1.10 Release Blog

Zach noted he is tracking a different figure that of 19mil vs 10mil on downloads. James clarified the 10mil figure filters out things like checksums. Public release checker suggests 12.7mil download. PackageCloud might offer some adoption graphs on version updates.

### Clarification Question on New Feature Process

Joey: what is the process on issue to RFC to ticket etc At present this does not seem clear.

Christian:
- not every issues needs an RFC (based on complexity)
- maintainers meet for an hour every week on new issues needing triaged
- revamp to written process might be needed

Joey: low priority item, what is the process?

James: issues will be marked and if RFC is required. Contribution docs should be clear on this.

Christian: we prefer people to not start before accepted in case duplicate effort or related to other larger pieces

Joey: could we make the documentation clearer?

All: agreed.
