# TSC Meeting Notes - 2025-10-15

## Agenda

- Working group update
- 1.11 release
- Internal Slack discussion around companies paying for different services
- Terragrunt and OpenTofu integration update

## Video Recording

TBD

## Attendees

- James Humphries
- Laurence Bordowitz
- Roger Simms
- Yousif Akbar

## Notes

### Working group update

- High level update on the current status of the Provider protocol working group.
- Initial discussions were very high-level, and the group is looking to drill down discussions so that they are more concrete.
- Security features like control over the providers that are allowed were discussed.
- Feature wishlist was discussed, and may need to be refined.
- Plan for iteratively refining process to make working group efficient discussed.
- Finding ways to independently discuss product features vs. technical solutions discussed.

### 1.11 release

- Beta of 1.11 planned for this week.
- Blog post to be written.
- Ephemeral values will be in release.
- Write-only arguments will be in release.
- Conditional enabled field needs to be finalized (docs missing).
- Hackathon may take place from November 3rd to November 7th.

### Internal Slack discussion around companies paying for different services

- Discussion around which companies are paying for different services.
- Discussion around how different services are configured for managing work.

### Terragrunt and OpenTofu integration update

- As of version 0.89.0, Terragrunt has special support for an OpenTofu 1.10 feature.
- Might drive additional adoption of OpenTofu.
- Special appreciation for Christian's work on this.

## Action Items

- N/A
