# TSC Meeting Notes - 2025-12-09

## Agenda

- 1.11.0 Timing + Current state
- Release cycle timing alongisde golang releases and reviewing our support policy.
  - Proposal to align OpenTofu's support periods with Go's release schedule to avoid maintaining versions on unsupported Go dependencies.
- Kubecon Amsterdam

## Video Recording

https://youtu.be/E3ceruhRlDs

## Attendees

- James Humphries
- Christian Mesh
- Roger Simms
- Yousif Akbar

## Notes

### 1.11 Release and Security Patch Policy

- The 1.11 release is scheduled to happen immediately after the call, provided everyone is happy with the proposed security patch policy. The release is intended to address some Go CVEs (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures) that have been identified.
- The maintainers' team separated the idea of general support into two distinct things: security patch policies and other support issues.
- James Humphries proposed that the project provide security patches "where possible for up to one year". This policy should be stated in the change log and a security policy file on the GitHub repository.
- Igor Savchenko's concern was how the policy would be perceived by large enterprises that perform risk analysis and have compliance requirements when deciding whether to migrate from Terraform to OpenTofu. He stressed the importance of enterprise adoption for the future of OpenTofu.
- The proposed one-year security patch support is primarily driven by the fact that the project cannot maintain a fork of the Go runtime.
- The Go runtime only supports the latest two versions, meaning security patches are only provided for the latest year of releases.
- OpenTofu has been vulnerable to a TLS validation issue in the Go runtime reported the previous day.
- Previously, the policy was to support three releases, but this would require shipping security patches for 1.9 and 1.8, which is impossible because the Go runtime used in those versions is too old and out of its support period.
- Christian Mesh and Igor Savchenko agreed that the stated end of support should refer to general support, not just security support, to avoid confusing customers and that they can still go "above and beyond" on a case-by-case basis.
- The proposed security patch policy means that the 1.11 release will have an end of life for security patches of August 2026, which is one year after the Golang update release cycle.
- **The TSC agreed to adopt the security patch policy** and will update the relevant documents and merge the pull request immediately after the call.

### Kubecon Amsterdam Booths

The deadline for requesting an OpenTofu booth at KubeCon Amsterdam, as a CNCF project, is December 17th. The deadline for talks has already passed.
The booths in the CNCF contributor area are small, free of charge, and are intended as a way for maintainers and contributors to talk about the open-source project, not for company-specific marketing.
Members from Gruntwork and other companies on the call are interested in having an OpenTofu booth.

## Action Items

- Implement the discussed security patch policy. 
