# Video Recording

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SREVuyJ2Aug](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SREVuyJ2Aug)

# Attendees

- Christian Mesh
- James Humphries
- Yousif Akbar
- Laurence Bordowitz
- Roger Simms
- Yaron Yarimi

# Notes

## Reminder of notes from previous meeting

From Previous meeting:
- Decision on whether to lock and shut down the deprecated `opentofucommunity.slack.com` Slack workspace.
  - Vote: Unanimous Yes.
  - Vote on Timeline: Unanimous: After this call 
- Decision on the addition of Yaron Yarimi (yaron.yarimi@env0.com) as a member of the TSC, alongside Arel resigning from the TSC
  - Unanimous Yes.
 
- Christian: We're getting closer to getting 1.12 out, starting to look for 1.13 scope. Ask: what do we see from the user bases, any requests, wishes, etc?

## Notes on today's meeting

### Updating our notes / video process

As part of looking towards moving to incubating. We need to prove that we're doing public meetings. We should still continue making notes.

What the CNCF prefers is using their Zoom system. This would also give us automation on getting the notes pushed to YouTube.

### Yousif: Features requested from OpenTofu

- Ability to use unknown values as inputs.
- Maximal use of cached providers.
- Ability to interact with OpenTofu programmatically without CLI.

Christian: Adjusting the internals so that more is exposed without the CLI would be complex. We're cleaning up the internals to make something like this more viable in the future.

James:
- Been hearing about implementing something like search/query. Ability to bring in brownfield resources.
- Unknown values as inputs +1
- Programmatic interaction: Ability to move things out of, between root modules.

Roger:
- Simple migration tool. Migrating from Terraform to OpenTofu.

Yaron:
- More information needed.
- Major company has asked how easy it would be to migrate to OpenTofu.
- Having a tool that can help migrate or confirm how easy a migration is, it would be good.

## James: AI Usage Policy

James has been writing up an AI usage policy for developers using AI tools on OpenTofu projects.

### Category A

OpenTofu forked MPL licensed repo, that HashiCorp since re-licensed to BUSL

### Category B

OpenTofu forked MPL licensed repo. It's still MPL in the fork.

### Category C

OpenTofu created the repo from scratch.

### Proposed resolution

For all of these categories, use Linux Foundation provided tooling to ensure indemnity. Require that only maintainers are allowed to perform AI-assisted development to ensure that proper procedures are obeyed.

More detailed proposal to follow.

## James: Shorter Dev Cycle

We're aiming for release of 1.13 in Sep.

We want to line up with the Go release cycle.

Roger: Would our support model then follow the same model as Go?

James: Our support model would then follow the same model as Google.

## Christian: Christian is out on the 12th

# Action Items

- [ ] James to create service tickets and talk to admins about the notes and video stuff.
