Present at meeting:

 - James Humphries
 - Yousif Akbar
 - Martin Atkins
 - Laurence Bordowitz
 - Andrei Ciobanu
 - Rishav Dhar
 - Diogenes Fernandes
 - Ilia Gogotchuri
 - Troy Knapp
 - Christian Mesh
----

 - Some discussions in the last few months about providers.
   - RFC and Proof-of-concept: new provider working on a new protocol
   - RFC: OpenTofu Middleware System https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/pull/3016
   - RFC: Seasonings, Adding a new plugin protocol to OpenTofu https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/pull/3051
 - How does OpenTofu move forward with big features?
   - Community-driven roadmap has worked okay so far, but ideas are running low, and we have a large wishlist of things we would like to try to get in.
   - Maybe larger conversations about features: terralith, granular state storage, etc.
   - Today: focusing on new OpenTofu provider protocol. Hence, this working group!
 - We want to design this in the open, and validate that it's correct.
   - Our goals: https://github.com/opentofu/org/blob/main/wg/new-providers/README.md
     - Clear protocol specification
     - Some features we want (like backends as plugins, encryption keys + methods)
     - Christian adds: a potential outcome we want is to provide a protocol, but it's not bundled in the concept of a provider. So not necessarily a provider. What could a potential provider do, and if something is in the provider protocol, what does that entail?
     - Development artifacts: SDKs, client/server libraries, dev tooling and testing
     - Eventually get to a complete RFC; potentially rewriting or scrapping existing RFC
     - Deployment and execution: local vs remote, where are providers running?
     - Future vision, long-term goals for OpenTofu itself.
 - Quesitons from the floor:
   - Christian: Feature catalog is probably where we should start, so we understand the problem.
     - James: Feature catalog will happen in parallel, like protocol specification.
   - Larry: do we have a closed scope for what belongs here?
     - James: won't be deprecating existing Terraform providers or remove support from that protocol. No new provider registry system, and no replacing existing tools.
   - Yousif Akbar: Have we considered expanding what we won't be addressing by detailing features of GRPC we may not want to see in this new protocol, why we're not extending the existing protocol. Why not leverage Terraform providers in a more nuanced way?
     - James: this is a living document. I'm happy to update this as much as we want. May want to implement and extend the entire Terraform protocol; we can decide that over time.
   - Troy: Any other anti-features, like generating code in the module?
     - James: Open to ideas, no limitations at the moment. Want to make sure any features actually have a use-case in the Terraform/Tofu ecosystem and would be used by people
   - Martin: On extending Terraform protocol: that's a technical blocker. It's not intended to be extended by third parties. We'd be forking it if we did that, so we'd be making a new protocol anyway, but just as a superset. Terraform will keep evolving theirs, we'd evolve ours, and we'll diverge over time.
     - Christian: that would imply supporting both at the same time would be tricky.
     - Martin: Protocol buffers use integers as fields. If Hashi and we assign different fields to the same integer, it would not be a good time.
   - Yousif: so we're not going with messagepack RPC system? What I want to understand early on: if OpenTofu is exploring a new RPC system that's not GRPC, determining what we're not going to use.
     - James: We haven't made any decision on a protocol yet. Something in the style of jsonrpc is becoming ubiquitous in other tools. Libraries in a lot of languages are available. Where messagepack comes in: go-cty, OpenTofu's type package, does serialization through messagepack, which it does because it has to handle unknown values. Json doesn't have representation for this. That doesn't mean we can't change it in the future.
     - Martin: we started with the assumption we want to use stdin/stdout instead of sockets, because we want to manage things in containers
     - James: influenced by MTP servers.
   - Christian: what's the goal of today's kickoff?
     - James: identify if anyone has large reservations, questions, misunderstandings. Then determine steps people can work on solo/async, do as much as possible async, which would work better for a geographically spread out group such as this.
     - Christian: I recommend we fill out membership list, then go through the feature catalog, and have that started before getting into components.
     - James: determine how much we can do synchronously as much as possible. Maybe figure out some items we want to do.
     - Christian: maybe do research on what's out there, literature that already exists.
   - Martin: are we trying to be a superset of the current protocol, or adding new things and expect people are already using the existing protocol for what it does. Do we care to do managed resource types, or should they continue using Terraform's provider protocol.
     - Christian: Work graph: what's our problem space, research that, figure out how this belongs into a provider, as part of or separate from the existing protocol, then we can spider out the rest?
     - James: Martin's asking: do we create superset of Hashicorp Terraform provider protocol or not? Have a label on some issues in opentofu where current limitations can be solved by solving this problem. Granular state storage doesn't technically exist in providers, but this would be a new feature from this working group. Automatic imports are related to import identity, which is an existing functionality in Terraform.
   - Martin: meta-idea is, are we expecting a vendor to write two plugins? Or can a vendor write one plugin?
     - James: we should do as little as possible to fragment the market. But then people ask for an OpenTofu AWS provider. We should set a clear boundary: not replace existing providers
     - Martin: Hashi maintains some providers, it's in a tricky situation because we need to rebuild those from source. But we don't want to put up additional work for vendors to support OpenTofu
   - Troy: provider wrapper?
     - James: this is what I pitched to people. For example: bulk actions, doing things in parallel with a single provider. If we manage resources, could write a proxying provider, which connects to existing AWS provider, but calls it in a different way to speed things up. Downside: we would have to write a terraform provider client. Or we just say "we only do this for Golang."
   - Andrei: How are we moving forward with both protocols? Concerned about adoption, how other vendors will jump into what we are doing.
     - Martin: we've talked before about the possibility that, from OpenTofu client's perspective, we're thinking of this as a superset. Some of those things might overlap. Could have an equivalent operation, but there's some functionality when you're talking to a Terraform/OpenTofu provider, and need to determine the functionality we will offer. Not necessarily how we will do it.
     - Christian: comes back to the question of the features we're interested in, and determine if providers are the appropriate place for that.
   - Yousif: what are the political objectives? Ignoring OpenTofu adoption, technical issues to address regardless of OpenTofu adoption, make it a more powerful tool than Terraform. Talking to folks at DC conference: very low usage of OpenTofu there. IaC, people are ready to measure 10 times, cut once. Should have backwards compatibility in order to keep adoption.
 - James: The world of IaC is a slow-moving one. Spacelift, people are using Terraform 1.0.1. Is it in that situation because there hasn't been a big piece of functionality that could bring people across? Could this be a driving impetus to spur people to upgrade? There is value in making things a no-op, to make things an opt-in. Never break compatibility, make migration easy, etc. But I would love to have a *killer feature* to get people to go over to OpenTofu (like client-side encryption, provider for-each).
   - Yousif: I wasn't talking about OpenTofu users, but vendors. Average IaC user needs to know there's immense advantage to using this tool.
   - James: part of the RFC is defining the persona of the person using this. Whenever we talk about providers, we talk about AWS, CloudFlare, GCP, GitHub. But there are small companies that want to write tooling with OpenTofu. The question is not "how can AWS get here." It's "how can we have interaction with terragrunt, TACOs, with extended functionality". Want some bit of open-policy without having to pay for some TACOs. An individual Joe who wants to set up 50 lines of Python to set something up, rather than set up a whole provider. Figure out gaps in the market, rather than convince an existing player in the market. Those gaps are big enough to target.
   - Martin: A challenge: you're both right in different ways. Certain parts, a long-tail provider makes sense. Things like state storage are a harder argument; we'd want vendors who already have the providers to add these. Great, now you have to write a new thing from scratch. How do we bridge that gap to add an extra thing for OpenTofu specifically (James: I don't have an answer to that)
 - Christian: Why does backends as plugins live with provider?
   - Martin: I've seen new people confused why they have to configure provider and backend separately. Like, why configure OpenTofu to talk to AWS twice? Can't do that in two separate plugins. Have survived this long with that situation.
 - Troy: things on this list that I'd go absolutely nuts for, like moving state from one stack to another easily (big game changer for orgs with big infra and clunky workspace patterns), auto-importing resources (this would make it so much easier to adopt OpenTofu in general). Not seeing a whole lot from the provider's perspective.
 - Some talk about the Infra Cost provider, might want to reach out to them
 - Troy: Generic wrapper or proxy for providers? "You're still compatibile with the Terraform SDK"

----
Actions:
 - Protocol Specification Pros and Cons: Martin, James, and Ilia to provide updates on transport protocols
 - Feature Catalog: Troy, Christian, Andrei and Dio will provide updates on potential features.

